README.md, before:

# basil-ts: time-series forecaster for SAGE

A collection of R scripts (`basil-ts/basil-ts`) in a Python Flask microservice (`basil-ts`). 

[Gallery of forecast charts](tests/README.md)

## Setup/running

### Docker

To start a container running the forecaster in a Docker container:

```bash
cd ~/Work/2017-HFC/SAGE-ward-share/basil-ts

# build/run app
docker build -t basil-ts ./ 
docker run -dp 5000:5000 -it --name basil-ts basil-ts

# hello world
curl http://0.0.0.0:5000; echo
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d @tests/io/example1.json http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast
```

### macOS

This will skip the Docker part and just run the app in the local terminal:

```bash
cd ~/Work/SAGE-wardassoc/basil-ts

if [ ! -d "env" ]; then
  echo "Setting up Python environment"
  python3 -m venv env
fi
source env/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
python3 app.py

# later
deactivate
```

From another terminal:

```bash
# hello world
curl http://0.0.0.0:5000; echo
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d @tests/io/example1.json http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast
```

## API

For normal use, use 

```url
http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast
```

For backcasting, add a `backcast=True` option:

```url
http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast?backcast=True
```

This will by default drop all data from the beginning of the question period on. Another argument controls how much data is dropped, `drop-after=YYYY-mm-dd`: 

```url
'http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast?backcast=True&drop-after=2017-10-29'
```

This should be a date in ISO format, i.e. 'YYYY-mm-dd'. If it exceeds the question period end date it will be reset to the question period end date - 1. 

*Note that 'drop_after' does not correspond to the forecast that would have been made on that date. That forecast also depends on the delay in obtaining data, and for most questions data from the same or previous day would not be available so quickly.*

List of options:

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Option</th>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>backcast</code></td>
<td>True</td>
<td>Use with backcasting option, which will drop data after question start (default) or `drop-after` if specified.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>drop-after</code></td>
<td>YYYY-MM-DD</td>
<td>If `backcast=True`, drop data after this date.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>`quick`</td>
<td>True</td>
<td>Do not estimate secondary models in `forecasts`, only estimate main ARIMA model forecast.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Request conventions / API input file expectations

Data aggregation

- For questions with weird fixed time periods like a 40-day period, the data in the request will be daily and aggregation will take place in basil-ts. 
- For questions with regular time periods (day, week, month), data in the request will already be aggregated and the request should include additional information: 
    - a `aggregated-data` field identifying whether the data were aggregated in the platform, "true/false".
    - a `last-event-date` field listing the date through which the source data reach. This is used to handle partial data for a time period. 
- For monthly data, the reference date should be the first of the month, e.g. the time series historical data should be indexed by the first day of each month. 


### Response format

The response is a JSON object. It contains the ARIMA forecast and two other JSON objects, one containing forecasts for a larger set of models, e.g. ETS, random walk, etc., and the other one ("parsed_request") has debugging info on how the request was internally processed. 

```
{
  FORECAST
  "forecasts": {
    # a named set of FORECAST objects containing forecasts from different models,
    # including the one copied at the top level above
    "ARIMA": { FORECAST },
    "ETS": { FORECAST },
    ...
  },
  "parsed_request": { information on how the request was process internally }
}
```

Where FORECAST has the following structure:

```
"model": [ "ARIMA" ],

# Raw time series forecast
"ts": [
  ...,
  ["2018-05-01", "1272", "1250.343", "1293.657"]
],
"ts_colnames": ["date", "Poin Forecast", "Lo 95", "Hi 95"],

# Answer category probabilities
# for multinomial IFPs, this will contain a probability for all answer options
# for binary IFPs, this will be a single probability for the "Yes" option
"option_probabilities": [0.0001, 0.3729, 0.6234, 0.0037, 3.3857e-10],
"option_labels": [ <copied from request separations> ],

"forecast_is_usable": [ 1 ], 
"trainN": [ 60 ],             # how many data points were used for training 
                              # the model
"to_date": [ "2018-05-31" ],  # forecast covers through this date, compare 
                              # to "ts" date above
"internal": { <internal model-related info> }
```

- "to_date": the date through which the forecast goes; this should be the end date of the question time period, aka the resolution date in the charts


## Running tests

Right now the tests are spread over several files/commands. Anyways.

```bash
# from basil-ts dir

# API tests
python3 tests/test_api.py

# Unit tests (R)
Rscript 'basil-ts/tests/testthat.R'

# Run all RCT-A requests
# needs app running in another terminal
python3 tests/run_all.py
Rscript -e 'library(rmarkdown); rmarkdown::render("tests/README.Rmd")'

# To run a specific IFP
bash tests/test.sh 1055

# To pretty format io files
bash tools/format_inputs.sh
```

Commit message:

add example forecasts for extended models

README.md, after:

# basil-ts: time-series forecaster for SAGE

A collection of R scripts (`basil-ts/basil-ts`) in a Python Flask microservice (`basil-ts`). 

[Gallery of forecast charts](tests/README.md)

[List and gallery of extended TS models](docs/list-of-models.md)

## Setup/running

### Docker

To start a container running the forecaster in a Docker container:

```bash
cd ~/Work/2017-HFC/SAGE-ward-share/basil-ts

# build/run app
docker build -t basil-ts ./ 
docker run -dp 5000:5000 -it --name basil-ts basil-ts

# hello world
curl http://0.0.0.0:5000; echo
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d @tests/io/example1.json http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast
```

### macOS

This will skip the Docker part and just run the app in the local terminal:

```bash
cd ~/Work/SAGE-wardassoc/basil-ts

if [ ! -d "env" ]; then
  echo "Setting up Python environment"
  python3 -m venv env
fi
source env/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
python3 app.py

# later
deactivate
```

From another terminal:

```bash
# hello world
curl http://0.0.0.0:5000; echo
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d @tests/io/example1.json http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast
```

## API

For normal use, use 

```url
http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast
```

For backcasting, add a `backcast=True` option:

```url
http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast?backcast=True
```

This will by default drop all data from the beginning of the question period on. Another argument controls how much data is dropped, `drop-after=YYYY-mm-dd`: 

```url
'http://0.0.0.0:5000/forecast?backcast=True&drop-after=2017-10-29'
```

This should be a date in ISO format, i.e. 'YYYY-mm-dd'. If it exceeds the question period end date it will be reset to the question period end date - 1. 

*Note that 'drop_after' does not correspond to the forecast that would have been made on that date. That forecast also depends on the delay in obtaining data, and for most questions data from the same or previous day would not be available so quickly.*

List of options:

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Option</th>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>backcast</code></td>
<td>True</td>
<td>Use with backcasting option, which will drop data after question start (default) or `drop-after` if specified.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>drop-after</code></td>
<td>YYYY-MM-DD</td>
<td>If `backcast=True`, drop data after this date.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>`quick`</td>
<td>True</td>
<td>Do not estimate secondary models in `forecasts`, only estimate main ARIMA model forecast.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Request conventions / API input file expectations

Data aggregation

- For questions with weird fixed time periods like a 40-day period, the data in the request will be daily and aggregation will take place in basil-ts. 
- For questions with regular time periods (day, week, month), data in the request will already be aggregated and the request should include additional information: 
    - a `aggregated-data` field identifying whether the data were aggregated in the platform, "true/false".
    - a `last-event-date` field listing the date through which the source data reach. This is used to handle partial data for a time period. 
- For monthly data, the reference date should be the first of the month, e.g. the time series historical data should be indexed by the first day of each month. 


### Response format

The response is a JSON object. It contains the ARIMA forecast and two other JSON objects, one containing forecasts for a larger set of models, e.g. ETS, random walk, etc., and the other one ("parsed_request") has debugging info on how the request was internally processed. 

```
{
  FORECAST
  "forecasts": {
    # a named set of FORECAST objects containing forecasts from different models,
    # including the one copied at the top level above
    "ARIMA": { FORECAST },
    "ETS": { FORECAST },
    ...
  },
  "parsed_request": { information on how the request was process internally }
}
```

Where FORECAST has the following structure:

```
"model": [ "ARIMA" ],

# Raw time series forecast
"ts": [
  ...,
  ["2018-05-01", "1272", "1250.343", "1293.657"]
],
"ts_colnames": ["date", "Poin Forecast", "Lo 95", "Hi 95"],

# Answer category probabilities
# for multinomial IFPs, this will contain a probability for all answer options
# for binary IFPs, this will be a single probability for the "Yes" option
"option_probabilities": [0.0001, 0.3729, 0.6234, 0.0037, 3.3857e-10],
"option_labels": [ <copied from request separations> ],

"forecast_is_usable": [ 1 ], 
"trainN": [ 60 ],             # how many data points were used for training 
                              # the model
"to_date": [ "2018-05-31" ],  # forecast covers through this date, compare 
                              # to "ts" date above
"internal": { <internal model-related info> }
```

- "to_date": the date through which the forecast goes; this should be the end date of the question time period, aka the resolution date in the charts


## Running tests

Right now the tests are spread over several files/commands. Anyways.

```bash
# from basil-ts dir

# API tests
python3 tests/test_api.py

# Unit tests (R)
Rscript 'basil-ts/tests/testthat.R'

# Run all RCT-A requests
# needs app running in another terminal
python3 tests/run_all.py
Rscript -e 'library(rmarkdown); rmarkdown::render("tests/README.Rmd")'

# To run a specific IFP
bash tests/test.sh 1055

# To pretty format io files
bash tools/format_inputs.sh

python3 tests/run_extended_models.py
```
